1. What is the purpose of the mask?

🔹Covid-19 virus can easily spread from person to person

🔹Masks reduce the chances of the virus entering our respiratory system through airborne particles from an infected person.
I don't wear mask I don't have any idea what's wrong please everyone mask is mandatory before going out only if you are good your family people around you our state our country will be good
Laxman alle

Stay Home 🏠 Stay Safe🇮🇳


2. How is the water in the pot cold?

Question: Why is the water in the pot cold?
Only water in new pots is cold. A pot bought many years ago does not cool water very well. The walls of the new pot have tiny holes that are invisible to the naked eye. As in silver paper, these thin pores are not wide enough to allow the water inside to flow out. Only when the pot is made and fired in the kilns are the holes formed in the walls in thin, curved brickwork. You will notice that the outside of the new pot is sweaty as the water inside comes out a little through these holes. This spring water evaporates due to summer heat. But for water to vaporize it needs some superheat to change from liquid state to gas state. Each gram of water requires about 540 calories of heat to evaporate. This heat is taken from the evaporating water from the walls of the pot and the water in the pot cools down the water in the pots and the walls of the pot. That is why the water in the new pots is cold.
--laxman alle


3. Why smoke from the mouth in winter?

Question: In winter, when air is released through the mouth, it comes out white and like smoke. why

Ans: In winter, even though we exhale air through our nose as part of breathing process, air coming out while talking does not come in the form of smoke. The only reason it turns into smoke and vapor is the air outside. The air we exhale is at our body temperature (about 37 degrees centigrade). But in winter the outside air temperature is around 10 degree to 15 degree centigrade. When we speak, the air that is exhaled through the nose is close to body temperature. Once it comes out, it loses its temperature when it comes in contact with the cold air outside. Thus, the water vapor in the air we leave becomes small water droplets (droplets). These droplets have colloidal properties. That is, they scatter light. This phenomenon is known as the 'Tyndall' effect. Water vapor appears as smoke due to the scattering of light.
--laxman alle

4. What are those marks on the cylinders?

Question: Codes A,B,C,D are used at the bottom of cooking gas cylinders. What do they mean?

Answer: Fuel gas is liquefied under high pressure in a cooking gas cylinder. The fuel in it, weighing about 15 kilograms, would occupy a volume of several hundred thousand liters if converted to normal external pressure. In other words, a gas cylinder is like a bomb. Due to the thick metal walls, the gas cylinder does not explode despite the high pressure inside. But since it is also a sealed vessel made of ferrous metal, over time tides and corrosion can cause light bubbles to form in its walls or near the regulator nozzle. GAIL has mentioned some signs to let you know when such a situation is likely to occur. The letters A, B, C, D are the signs that indicate how long the gas cylinder can be used safely without any danger, just like the medicines prescribed by the doctor for health have an expiry date. Those letters are followed by a two-digit number. That two-digit number represents the year in the current century. For example, if 25 is 2025, 12 is 2012. If there is an A in the letters before the sign of those years, it means from January to March of those years. If B means from April to June, if C means from July to September, and if D means from October to December, it should be understood. For example, if the cylinder in your house says C-18, that cylinder should not be used after September 2018, meaning its expiry date is September 2018.
--laxman alle


5. Why does sunburn occur?

Question: Why does sunburn occur in summer? How to protect from sunburn?

Answer: Biochemical processes take place smoothly in the body only at certain temperature. The health status of an organism is determined by the rate of biochemical reactions. Even if the speed decreases or increases drastically, there will be danger. The body structure of different living species has different dosages. The average human body temperature should be around 37℃ or 98.4°F. Generally, if the temperature is higher than this in the vicinity, it is said to be freezing. If the ambient temperature is less than this, it is said to be cold. In summer, the outside temperature is much higher than the body temperature. Summer temperature ranges from 40°C to 50°C depending on the region. According to the zeroth law of thermodynamics, which is part of the laws of nature, heat energy always flows from a region of higher temperature to a region of lower temperature. It means that the outside temperature is high in summer, so there is a possibility of heat from outside going into the body. There is a risk of rising body temperature. Similarly in winter the surrounding temperature is -10℃ to 15℃ depending on the region